So let's do a quick review
of RDS and Aurora Security
but you may know already most of this information.
So we have at-rest encryption
to encrypt the database master and any replicas using KMS.
And you must define this at launch time of your database.
And if your database master is not encrypted,
then the read replicas cannot be encrypted as well.
If you want to encrypt an unencrypted database,
you have to go through a database snapshot
and then you restore it as an encrypted database.
You have in-flight encryption,
so you have TLS-ready databases by default.
For this, you just connect using the TLS port
and you also use the TLS root certificate
from AWS client side to establish this connection.
You can use IAM authentication to connect to your database
so the IAM roles will be exchanged for credentials
and then this allows you to get removed from
permanent usernames and passwords and have tighter security.
Access to your database is also managed by security groups.
This is from a network perspective,
and you cannot SSH onto your RDS databases
unless you're using RDS Custom where you can have access
to the OS of your RDS database.
You can send the audit logs of your databases
to CloudWatch Logs for longer retention.
So for IAM authentication,
this works for MySQL and PostgreSQL.
You don't need a password,
just you make sure you obtain an authentication token
directly by using the IAM and the RDS API calls.
This token has a lifetime of 15 minutes for authentication
but then once you have established a connection
you're good to go.
So how does that work?
Well, your EC2 instance wants to connect
to your RDS database.
You're going to attach an IAM role to your EC2 instance.
Then you're going to issue API calls to the RDS service
to get an authentication token out of it.
And then you're going to pass this authentication token
on the secure connection with SSL into your RDS database
and then you will be connected.
So the benefits of this is that your network
in and out must be encrypted with SSL
so you have secure connections,
you have IAM to centrally manage all your users
of your database instead of creating them
and managing them from within your database
so it's very handy,
and you can leverage IAM roles and EC2 instances
for easy integrations which streamlines your security.
I also want to bring your attention to
how to encrypt an unencrypted snapshot of Aurora.
So when you have an encrypted database,
everything is going to be encrypted,
such as your database instances, your snapshot, your logs,
and your backups.
But what happens if it's unencrypted?
So you have a database snapshot, it's unencrypted.
What you can do is that you can restore this
as a database cluster and this will be encrypted
and only then you can create a snapshot
that is going to be encrypted from this database cluster.
So this is a misconception,
but if you have an unencrypted database cluster,
you cannot create an unencrypted snapshot out of it.
And if you have an unencrypted snapshot,
it's not possible for you to copy the snapshot
and encrypt it.
The only way to do that is to go
by restoring the snapshot as an encrypted
Aurora database cluster
and then creating a snapshot out of it.
Okay, that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.